# The Melancholy of Longevity

Project Goal: To identify the critical predictors for human life expectancy based on Emory students' data.
Background: Following the technological advancement in recent decades, we expect people's life expectancy to significantly increase than in the past. However, an worrisome trend of young people living in high-risk life style is observed by the scientific community. Scholars have shown that in recent decades, young generation are increasingly engage in leisure activities that involve the use of alcohol and other substances (e.g., nightclubbing), all of which impact their health. Moreover, young people tend to be over-stressed by the intense 21st century work culture and suffer mental health issues. The downstream consequences are that young people sleep less, eat irregularly, and not exercise well. These unhealthy behaviors of young people lead to the conjecture that whether the life expectancy of this generation is affected. Do risk behaviors outweigh the benefit that medical innovation bring to people's longevity? If so, what are the most important factors that influences peoples' life expectancy at this day and age. To answer these questions, this research investigates the factors that shapes peoples' life expectancy in twenty first century using data collected from Emory students.
Name: Ziwei He, Zheng Lian, Lucas Lu
Method: Our method is to collect Emory students' data from a survey.
Conclusion: Our analysis indicates that diet is the single most important predictor for life expectancy.